Directors Notes by William Harby aka WillRock

1: DDRKirby(ISQ) - Shooting Star (album edit): I was introduced to DDRKirby through his many contributions to ThaSuace's OHC competitions. This was a track from one of those compos, although it has been slightly more polished since then. It was my pick for track 1 right from the beginning, due to its lengthy intro build up, its catchy nature, and its great production. Props to that solo too!

2: TheGuitahHeroe - Floating on Simple Waves: I'm a big fan of anything ultra melodic, and boy, this track delivers the melody in a huge way. This is a great uplifting track, and that chorus section is damn awesome.

3: WillRock - Crystalline Seashores: Those chords were me trying desperately to sound like ProtoDome. :P Add a bit of funk, some Sega Genesis/Megadrive sounds, and some typical WillRock solos and you got one of my personal favourite tracks i've done!

4: lazygecko - Curry Shrimp Ice Cream: For those wondering, yes, this is Gecko Yamori from OC ReMix.This track to me sounds like its come right out of Ubiktune's Soundshock: FM Funk Madness, and it should be obvious why upon hearing it. Awesome FM synthesis, great groove, and some really tasteful soloing!

5: halc - Swim: No chiptune album with the 9-bit moniker would be complete without the man who came up with it! halc really brought the chill to this album with this offering. Feels like the sort of song that you might smoke weed to… not that I smoke weed or anything. You'll find yourself relaxing to this one regardless!

6: DDRKirby(ISQ) - The Ecstasy of Life: This was the track that made me recruit DDRKirby, and I found myself begging him to include this track on the album. Its fueled by a downright BADASS chiptune riff, and uses that as a foundation to build an awesome groove throughout. I dare you not to bop your head when listening to this! In other words, this track is damn awesome. Highly recommended.

7: WillRock - Mechanical Rail: This is an update of a track from Fasto the Speedhog 2, which was an awesome Sonic tribute album released by ThaSauce. As a result, this sounds just like a track in Sonic 2 I will not name (figure it out!) but it got some good reception so I've updated it for this album!

8: DarkSim - Mushy Peas: I love that opening riff. This track marks a transition to a more progressive nature of track structure, with an awesome stylistic shift half way through I will not spoil. You'll just have to listen to find out. ;)

9: TheGuitahHeroe - What's in Your Head: I don't know what's in your head when you listen to this, but his head must have been tripping out! This is pretty awesome atmospheric music, which substitutes melodies for pads and some amazing arps. Some of the synths give off a very ghostly quality and this very well might leave you spooked by the end of it - in a good way of course!

10: ectogemia - Distress Signal: This carries on the atmospheric nature of the last track but adds some drums to help ground out the mix, and it eventually progresses into highly creative musical ear candy, complete with a large amount of synth and drum processing. The amount of ideas on display here is impressive.

11: Mazedude - Sine Waves vs White Noise: Mazedude has been a massive contributor to the VGM scene with his work on OCR so I was pretty happy when he sent me this - it's basically the maddest thing you'll ever hear. It's almost atonal, and has a bizarre time signature that I had trouble picking out. Yet somehow, in typical Mazedude fashion, it all works! It shouldn't work, it COULDN'T work, but it does, and that should be applauded. Well done sir, you have left me speechless.

12: Suzumebachi - Solar Maxima: Continuing on the progressive nature of the album, this one goes through a lot of awesome change ups. It starts off with some downright hardcore chiptune metal, then halves time, halves time again, doubles time, goes through some metric modulation, and ends up with this ultra happy "and they lived happily ever after" finish that'll leave you wondering how on earth the track got there. This is all in the meantime with some epic melodies that'll stick long after listening. Great stuff.

13: Txai - Star Shield: Many of you will be getting Mega Man X vibes from this I'm sure. This is basically an awesome SNES-styled progressive rock song, with numerous tempo and time signature changes. Some awesome harmonies and solos here as well; that guitar solo at the end will get you air-guitaring like a maniac… and its not even a guitar!

14: Meteo Xavier, WillRock - No Soup For You: Written by Meteo Xavier, with sound design, mixing/mastering, as well as a few arrangement change ups by me. I'd say this is 80% Meteo, however; I shouldn't get as much credit. Carrying on the 16-bit progressive rock root started by Txai, this will be bound to get the rockers head banging as before. Awesome outro to this one as well!

15: Jingo - Mayday: This track is a no nonsense 8-bit style chiptune rock-out, complete with an epic melody and some sweet sequencing ideas to keep things creatively interesting. One of the most accessible tracks on the album.

16: Emery Monzerol - Shuttle Rush: To clarify, he wanted his artwork character to be named by his OCR username DaMonz, as evidenced by the back art. This track treads a rather cool mix between bad ass uptempo, atmospheric pads, and over the top leads. There is also some rather epic soloing and harmonies going on throughout, and some really nice arpeggios as well.

17: DarkSim - Silicon Bits: This was DarkSim's second track on the album, which he put together some time after Mushy Peas. Awesome production and a great groove is bound to get you on the dance floor!

18: DDRKirby(ISQ) - Descent: This one hits hard. Then it hits harder. Then it just blows you away with some of the most intense and downright beastly riffs that brings to mind Streets of Rage 2. You'll know when it hits. ;)

19: WillRock, Txai - Valiant Aces: This is essentially a remix of an original track of mine no one has ever heard. That said, this "remix" stays true to the original source and really takes it to the next level by adding masses of countermelodies, ornamentations and embellishments, which fit in perfectly with the source music. Yes, you guys haven't heard the original, but you won't need to after hearing this, trust me. ;) Also, a cookie to anyone who can work out what the title is an anagram of. :D

20: Hylian Lemon - File Swording: This track is one of the more unique mixes on the album, fusing chiptunes with church organs and ethnic instrumentation - and it all works out fantastically.

21: PROTODOME - Bubble Bath: This was the last track I got for the album, and basically signaled the point where I could call the whole thing done. Yes, this man likes to make me wait. Typical ProtoDome jazzy chiptune. Btw, also as typical ProtoDome suggests, its awesome. :D Great solo at the end as well!

22: ectogemia - Spitting Fire: This takes the overwhelming creativity that ectogemia showed with Distress Signal and fuses it with a combination of funk and jazz. Yes folks, you'll all love this one! :D

23: Gario - Orbital Sky Diving: This track always gave me the impression of a person who was finishing his journey after a long and hard battle with intergalactic space hamsters - in space. Thats all I need to say about this one I think. :D

24: TheGuitahHeroe - Pixel Sky: This song is just mystical. I don't know how you make an awesome mystical song, but whatever it is, TheGuitahHeroe pulled it off here with style. Also reminds me of the Song of Storms, which should be enough reason to listen to it!

25: WillRock - Homeward Bound: I didn't intend on giving myself the final track, but after DarkSim suggested that it sounded like a credits theme, I couldn't resist. This is my tribute to EarthBound - I used a soundfont that emulates many of the sounds found in EarthBound, made it sound like EarthBound, gave it a name that made people think of EarthBound… and used Genesis drums. Because thats how I roll. 